(Matt) This week has been quite exciting for the RSE group. After Alba joined a few weeks ago, we had another new starter this week Joe Marsh, who has joined the Edinburgh office. This has meant we are starting to feel like a real team, having our daily "standups" at 10, slowly getting to know one another, and figuring out how we will work together as a team. Even more exciting is the imminent arrival of another team member next week, Robin Long, and our get together to launch the group in Lancaster on Wednesday - which will be the first chance we've had to all meet in person. This will also give us the opportunity to advertise our group to those at the Lancaster site and give us the chance to discuss in-depth issues around governance and how things will fit together moving forward.

This week saw the start of renovations to the Lancaster office, so those in the EDS team are mostly working from home for the next few weeks. The plans for the renovations do look very nice, with the promise of a cleaner space and various collaborative work areas, as well as greater flexibility around hot desking and quiet work areas too!

Jo has had a short week, but is continuing to work on the plankton imagery project, finding places where she can help here and there. Alba has been finishing off with previous projects, specifically making sure things are documented and ready to hand over for the AMI system project. I have been focusing on exploring various avenues for applying NLP methods to enhance the discoverability of datasets in the EIDC. I have been building on some previous work conducted by Lily in the data science team around semantic similarity and have also worked on applying topic modelling methods to the EIDC metadata description. This work will hopefully yield some interesting visual discoverability tools - as well as ways to make datasets more findable.
