# UKCEH RSE Group Weeknotes - 17/05/2024

(Jo)A long week and a short weeknote, as we've spent a couple of days at the Pollution Science Area Meeting in the UKCEH offices in Lancaster. These meetings happen about once every 6 months and are an opportunity for everyone in a Science Area to gather, present on their most recent work and hear about key topics from other parts of the organisation.

The Environmental Data Service which hosts our group works on core infrastructure, with many different research specialisms, but in terms of organisational logic we're part of the Pollution group. It was a chance to learn about the concerns of analytical chemists, of researchers working on the food chain, about ethical practises surrounding different kinds of sampling from vertebrates and invertbrates. It's a fascinating whole new world of science for me. 

We also saw presentations on upcoming large-scale digital research infrastructure projects (Access-UK) and how they relate to past initiatives in UKCEH (UK-Scape, Exposome) as well as the impressive work on national-scale environmental monitoring and reporting being driven by colleagues in the Biodiversity group.

As I'm at a different site from most colleagues in the EDS team it was also an opporunity to meet, in-person, a lot of people who I've only got to know through video calls - always an illuminating and disorienting experience! To make a few new connections, and to have the chance of in-person meeting with potential future collaborators. 

It was a packed couple of days of back-to-back meetings, next time we'll have to build in a bit more discretionary time, and plan to spend some of it looking through a microscope while researchers talk through how they interpret plankton.

We'll be starting to welcome the rest of the team in the coming weeks, and I'm looking forward to our programme taking shape. The term "powerhouse" was used, expectations are high and the possibilities are rich...

